This is one of multiple videos that help you troubleshoot CCMA scenarios in preparation for the CCMA
exam.
We've been told that P.S. 1 on the left in this topology is unable to ping P.S. 2 in this topology I'm
using genus 3 and Cisco Iowa's v routers as rather one and Robert T.
And to mimic the pieces in the topology
and don't trust a user when they tell you something as Ronald Reagan said Trust but verify we've been
told that P.S. One is not able to ping P.S. 2 and we verified that that's true.
Notice we're getting a U in the output which means that the traffic is being forwarded to a router and
that Rondo doesn't know what to do with a traffic now to ensure that trace route runs quickly.
All disable IP domain lookup and then we'll run a trace right to PCI to notice that traffic is getting
to write a one but is not going any further.
So it looks like there's a problem on road or one en route to one show IP road show ip route shows us
that the only routes in the routing table are directly connected networks and the local IP addresses
on the router because this is a remote network.
We need to run routing protocols on Route 1 and wrote a 2 to exchange runs.
So rather one needs to learn about network 10 1 2 3 0 from router 2.
So on Route 1 show IP protocols are we running a routing protocol.
And the answer is yes we are we're running 0 SPF 0 SPF is enabled in area 0 on gigabit 00 and in aerial
one on gigabit.
0 1 so show IP 0 SPF neighbor.
We don't have any neighbor relationships though show IP or SPF interface brief 0 SPF is enabled on gigabit
0 0 in area 0 and it's enabled on gigabit 0 1 in Area 1.
So rather one looks good.
What about right.
To show IP protocols we are running 0 SPF on wrote a 2 but can you spot the problem.
You should be able to see it in the output of this command to help you show IP SPF interface brief notice
or SPF is not running on any interfaces on Robert 2 Why is that.
Look at this output.
Its routing for networks 10 dot 1 0 0 0 0 0 255.
This means there's an exact match on the first 3 octet.
In other words 0 SPF is only running on Network 10 1 0 0.
Do we have any interfaces in that network show IP interface brief.
No we don't.
We have an IP address configured as follows and one configured as follows.
0 SPF is not running on any interfaces on this rather show run pipe section or SPF that allows us to
view the SPF configuration so SPF has been configured.
But notice the network command has been configured incorrectly so rudder or SPF 1.
No
network 10 1 0 0.
The command should be 10 1 0 0 0 0 255 255.
Now you don't have to do it that way but that's one of the options noticed Suddenly.
A neighbour relationship is established.
Let's have a look at the output against the show IPO SPF interface.
Let's rather do a brief because that's too much output.
Notice Oh SPF has now enabled on both interfaces of Robert to show IP protocols.
This looks a lot better.
Show IP who SPF.
NEIGHBOUR.
NEIGHBOUR relationship is established to write a one show IP round.
We have an entire area right on road a two to Network 10 1 1 0 and on Route 1 show IP 0 SPF neighbor.
We have a neighbour relationship to 10 1 3 1 show IP rot.
We have learnt a rod through a whisper.
Now notice it's not an entire area rot.
The rot is in the writing table but it's showing as an intra area rot.
Whereas this rot.
Is an entire area rot.
Ken P.S. 1 pain P.S. to answer is yes.
So this is a decision that you would need to make based on your design.
Show IP protocols on Route 1 shows us that 0 SPF has 1 interface gigabit 0 0 in areas 0.
That's fine.
This interface is an area one where as on route to we have both interfaces in area zero so the network
works.
But perhaps you want to do it this way.
So Radha who SPF 1.
Network 10 1 2 0.
And do it more explicitly and then network 10 1.
3 0.
I'll show you the output in a moment if you weren't sure about what I was typing.
So show run section of SPF we have to network commands configured this network is an area zero based
on this command and this network is in Area 2.
Based on this command show IP SPF neighbour.
Neighbour relationship is established.
We have an entire area right on Road at 2 and on Route 1.
We now see an entire area Route 10 1 3 0 slash 24.
In other words this network
is in area 0.
This is area 2
and this is area 1
it's important that you update your documentation and make sure that you configure your network correctly
per the documentation so to confirm that show IP protocols.
This is correct.
Its area 0.
This is also correct.
That's area 1 show IP protocols en route to output looks as follows this network 10 1 2 0 is an area
0 and this one is an area 2.
Now the reason why we have a difference in the output is notice the interfaces on Rider 2 don't have
a SPF commands on them.
We enabled 0 SPF in the writing process using the network command where as en route a 1
0 SPF was enabled on the interfaces individually and not under the 0 SPF process.
Both methods work in IP version 4 in IP version 6.
You need to use this method to enable 0 SPF on individual interfaces so that's an example of how to
troubleshoot 0 SPF.
Please comment on the video.
Let me know if it was useful to you.
Please also subscribe.
Thanks for watching and all the very best.